# Generative AI for Software Development

This repository documents my learning from the course **<a href="https://www.deeplearning.ai/courses/generative-ai-for-software-development/">Generative AI for Software Development</a>** by Laurence Moroney and deeplearning.ai. This repo contains the following directories and each one contains the pertinent files including README and Jupyter Notebook files: 
 
Some introductory points:
- This series of courses is about how to **use** generative AI and not about writing generative AI application
- Generative AI is a coding companion buddy to help us along
- McKinsey study, then a Cisco study estimated something like **35-ish**, maybe more, percentage improvements in productivity boost for code generation and various tasks
- Andrew's opinion: what will happen is people that use AI will replace people that don't. But AI won't replace software developers.
- Shrinking LLMs would be the trend. Laurence Moroney's viewpoint: Absolutely. And I also think that if the word is shrinkification, the fact that LLMs are getting smaller but still being as effective, I really see that trend continuing and increasing and making again the job of a developer that bit easier. So now, instead of outsourcing to a third party via a chatbot or those kind of things with your code, you could have an LLM running on your local machine. That's trained on your code base, that's an expert on your domain that you can then use as that pair programmer alongside you. And I see that being a major trend. And in addition to that, of course, then many companies won't allow their source code to be shared outside. You can't bring it to ChatGPT or cloud or anything like that. But when you have an internal model running on your own development box, that's when, again, I think the floodgates can open on these.
- This analogy of pair programming is great and you always have a buddy with you now that you can ask her a question with from right away.
- If pair programming with AI is not helping solve the immediate problem, it sparks inspiration. Some of the answers that it gives will help me find a different track that I'm going to follow to be able to fix a particular problem or to go a whole new direction that I hadn't previously thought of. And it's that sparking of inspiration is one of the things that really can make the task more enjoyable
- There are a lot of tasks that developers have to go through. And then to think through best practices for how can generative AI help with different tasks is useful. So, for example, I just had not thought of using generative AI to help with **test-driven development** to write tests until I heard about that from you quite a while back now. But I think those systematic analysis of what are the things you could do, what are the best practices?
- Another one in that realm that I love is **dependency management**. Because often bugs, there's nothing wrong with your code, it's just your dependency set, there's something **mismatching** in there. And to be able to use your friendly pair program or LLM to help you through that and has that understanding of dependencies and breaking changes and those type of things to guide you through that, there's a whole lot more to the universe of being a developer than just writing code.
- Andrew's thoughts on software eng. in 5 years:  I think it's exciting. It feels like syntax is already becoming less important. So there's one few thing we need to memorize as much of. And then I think as AI becomes increasingly able to autonomously write code, test it with agentic workflows, AI can write code, test it, debug it. I feel like, software developers can operate at a higher and higher level. I think there'll be plenty of work for us as humans to do to guide and supervise AI for a long time. But then knowing where the technology is and **staying with the technology even as it matures, I think that would be critical for us really doing the best work that we can.**

A final note on the course:88
In this specialization, there are three courses. The first thing that we do want to emphasize that this isn't a series of courses on how to build generative AI. This is a series of courses on **how to use generative AI to be a better software developer**. And the skills that we're looking at building here are really relevant for you in all areas. As we've touched on a little bit already, **it's not just coding, it's documentation, dependency management, testing, a little bit of architecture, all of that kind of stuff with gen AI as your friend.** 

So the first course is really for you as an individual software developer. It's going to introduce you a little bit to LLMs and how you can use them as a pair programmer. But then you're going to get into prompting and system prompting and having an LLM play roles like software tester or any of those kind of roles of the type of people that you'd be working alongside to build better code. 

The second one then is really when you start thinking about collaboration with other people as a software engineer. You're going to work with testers, you're going to work with people who do documentation, you're going to be working with people who give you dependencies. They may be internal to your company, or it might be third party dependencies like Python ones. And we're going to work through the skills of you being able to use an LLM to just be better at doing all of that. 

Then in the third and final course, it's like we're really going to take that to the professional software developer level where you can understand the full workflow of building and launching applications from the design phase with design patterns and the famous gang of four patterns through things like data serialization and database management. That's really the whole idea of this, to help you start as an individual developer, go on to working in a team, and then go on to really being able to deploy professional solutions.


1. [Introduction to Generative AI for Software Development](#1)

<a name="1"></a>
## Introduction to Generative AI for Software Development
